Let's now see how the schema-first approach works in practice.
We'll start with just the XSD, from which you will generate the Java classes,
and then we'll take a look at the generated classes.
In the previous module,
we've used the schemagen tool to generate an XSD from Java classes.
The JDK contains another tool, the xjc tool,
which does the opposite, generate Java classes from an XSD.
Take a look at the example ps-jaxb-19-xjc to see this tool in action.
We start with the XSD, which is in the file purchaseOrder.
xsd.
Let's open a terminal and run xjc to generate the Java classes.
Using the -d option, I tell xjc where to write the generated sources,
which is in src\main\java, in this case.
With the -p option, I specify in which package I want the domain model classes.
Let's use the same as what we've used in the previous examples, which is com.
jesperdj.
jaxb.
domain.
Finally, I want the generated source files to be in the UTF-8 character encoding,
and I specify the XSD to process.
Xjc prints the names of the source files that it generates.
We get the expected classes for our domain model,
and it also generates package-info.
java and also an ObjectFactory class.
Let's see what the generated classes look like.
We will start with class PurchaseOrder.
It's just a regular Java class with fields,
and getters, and setters, annotated with JAXB annotations,
much like the PurchaseOrder class that we wrote ourselves earlier.
There are a few points worth paying attention to.
Take a look at the field orderDate.
It's not a java.
util.
Date, as in our handwritten PurchaseOrder class.
Instead, it's an XMLGregorianCalendar.
This is a special date and time type that can contain all the information
for the various XML Schema standard date and time types.
A java.
util.
Date would not be sufficient because it does not preserve all the
information that the XML Schema date and time types can hold.
The reason why we have this is also historical.
Up to Java version 7,
Java did not have a very powerful standard API for working with dates and times.
This changed in Java 8, when the Java time package was added.
The Java time package does contain classes which are
capable of capturing all the information that the XML
Schema date and time types contain,
but JAXB is much older than Java 8 and hasn't been updated to
work with the Java 8 date and time classes.
Class XMLGregorianCalendar is cumbersome to use,
as we'll see in a moment when we'll take a look at how we can
use the generated classes for marshalling.
It would be nice if we could use the Java 8 date and time classes instead.
Later in this module,
we'll see how we can tell JAXB to use the Java 8
classes instead of XMLGregorianCalendar.
Next, take a look at the field Items.
Its type is PurchaseOrder.
Items, which is a nested class defined inside the PurchaseOrder class.
The Items class is a wrapper class for the list of item objects.
Remember that earlier,
we used the XmlElementWrapper annotation to avoid the
need for a wrapper class like this.
Unfortunately,
the xjc tool does not generate a field with an XmlElementWrapper
annotation; it generates a wrapper class instead.
Next, let's check out class Item.
Look at the comment field.
The type of this field is JAXBElement of String,
not just String, and it's annotated with an XmlElementRef annotation.
Why did xjc generate this field with a JAXBElement wrapper?
It's because in the XSD,
the comment element in the item complexType has both
minOccurs=0 and nillable=true.
Remember that in a previous module,
we wanted to be able to know whether an element was
not present at all in the XML, or whether it was explicitly set to nil.
We did that by making the field a JAXBElement of String instead of a String,
and creating an ObjectFactory class with a factory method for the JAXBElement.
Now xjc does that automatically for us.
Besides the domain model classes,
it has also generated an ObjectFactory class with a number of factory methods,
one of which is for the comment field of an item.
There's one last topic to discuss.
Remember that in a previous module,
I mentioned that it's more convenient if the root element is defined in
the XSD with an anonymous type rather than a name type.
I will now show you why.
Let's change the XSD slightly and move the anonymous
complexType definition of the PurchaseOrder element outside
of the element declaration itself, and make it a named complexType,
and then run xjc again and see what happens.
If you now look at the PurchaseOrder class again,
you'll see that it no longer has an XmlRootElement annotation.
This means that when you want to marshal or unmarshal a PurchaseOrder object,
you'll have to wrap or unwrap it in a JAXBElement yourself.
Why does xjc now omit the XmlRootElement annotation?
Seems the complexType PurchaseOrder is now a name type.
It could potentially be reused in the XSD for other elements
besides the globally defined PurchaseOrder element.
Even though in this XSD it's only used for the global PurchaseOrder element,
it could also be used for elements that are not globally defined,
which should not have an XmlRootElement on the class that represents their type.
So because the PurchaseOrder type could now possibly be used
for something else than a root element, xjc leaves out the XmlRootElement annotation.